# On-Browser-Character-Recognizer

Back into the days of early smartphone era, when touchscreens were new, there was a new typing technique that was making everyone awestuck about how could you just move your stylus over screens and it would convert that into a text or a word depending upon the your input. I was a witness, and my curiosity was at par about how a chip in side the phone, in some little space between battery, screen, speaker, bluetooth is able to do it? 

The answer at that time was not AI. 

But now the same could be done using an AI technique called, Convolutional Neural Network. 

And its the story of how I went from that curious little boy to building a very naive character recognizer using some open source tools and databases.

                                                 ------------------------------------
                                                 
My intro, 

I am Anshuman Patel, a 23 year old computer science graduate and an AI enthusiast and I live in Bengaluru, the silicon valley of India(my first stop at making my way to the world's Silicon Valley). 
I graduated in 2017, and altough I was a computer science undergrad, and had great interest in computers and how it works, I never really made any effort to make something cool, or even productive. So after my graduation I decided to take an year drop to explore myself and my real want, and maybe if I really wanted to be an programmer or not. I was already interested in AI, and due to the fact that I never really understood how it worked, I was more curious about it, and each week's new acheievement made me wonder how it all happens. So I took 2 courses from Udacity, Machine Learning Nanodegree and Deep Learning Nanodegree Foundations. 
But I did a mistake, I was not a seasoned or even a beginner level programmer. I was just a curious soul. 
So needless to say that I understood the concept but I was still not able to convert the ideas that were in my head to the code that would run and realize the idea of mine. I somehow completed both the courses in the required time. But I was nowhere near to being called as a programmer. I knew ideas, I understood it, but somehow I wasnt able to code it. And I kept of on googling about how to achieve this target of being a good programmer, and in top 10 results they suggested to learn about data structure, that was simply a nightmare for me, I hated that subject during my graduation(I scored 0 out of 40 in one of the tests).
Long story short, I moved to Bengaluru, spent next 3 months trying to learn and practice coding, made it to straight 100 days of coding, passed an intermediate lavel coding certification, spent next few days interviewing, learnt web development(just nominal, so that I could make some projects), learnt django, tried hand on flutter and was almost ready to mode onto mobile development. But, luck stuck and AI called me back. There is an amazing company called, The Inkers(Honestly its founder is an awesome personality and if given a chance I would like to work under him even if I dont get a salary, just search notion ink story in youtube and listen to the whole 38 minute talk/speech/story and thank me here). So what they did was, they run a program for educating people about AI, if you listen to his talk, they have been doing this from their previous startup, and I got a mail that I was selected as an external intern there. Yes, I was back in the game of AI. 
Its nearly 2 and a half months, from when the program started. And I have learned much more than I ever could. I now know how CNN woroks, where to get research papers from, datasets, I even read and implemented Densenet paper form out first major assignment. The task was to achieve 92% accuracy through densenet on cifar10 dataset and I managed to achieve 93.06% on that assignment. After that I am a regular visitor of online resources and comsume a good amount of knowledge about this field daily, so much that I can say that I am occupied to revise and learn for the next 3.4 months. And I was a subscriber to Siraj Raval(an AI educator, who has an unique way of delivering content to AI enthusiast) and saw a video titled #100DaysOfMLCode, and here I am documenting about how and why I got started. 

